# Chapter 0: Prelude

Some say there are an infinite number of worlds just like ours in every way
except one. One of those worlds is Syrenia. It is just like our world in every
way, except one. In syrenia, magic is real. Magic is a part of every day life,
and magic is done by most everyone to some degree.

Magic shapes everything in Syrenia. It is used for communication, for travel,
for work, and for play. It is used to harvest food and prepare it, it is used to
keep people safe at night. It is used to wage war and to keep peace.

Even nature relies on magic in Syrenia. Only humans have mastered Magic, but
almost all creatures have some degree of magic. In Syrenia, cats really do have
nine lives. There is a kind of monkey that instead of swinging on vines will
teloport between trees. This is a world that would not function without magic.

And in this world, magic is dying, and no one knows why.

There are many theories, and all of them have been dashed. Some say that the
world is running out of mana. Everyone has a limited supply of mana they can use
in their lifetime. It varies from person to person, but it always decreases when
someone is involved in magic. So there have been grand studies to measure the
amount of mana available to people over their life times. No measurable decrease
has been found. People are still being born with plenty of mana, but it just
isn't working the way it used to.

Some argued that mana is only have the equation. They argued that there was some
sort of global mana that reacted with a person's own mana in order to produce
magic. Every search for this source of global mana, or even the reactions it was
supposedly causing, came up with nothing.

As prevalent as magic was, the actual mechanism by which it worked was still
largely unknown. Some researchers had begun to crack the code, but it was slow
and tedious work, and they could barely explain the most basic spell, which some
considered wasn't even a spell because it required no mana.

This problem was so critical, international conflict was put aside. A global
council was formed from leading experts around the world. They gathered all the
data they could find. Every bit research, every idea anyone has had about magic
that could be found. None of it could point a way to what was wrong. Except one.

There was one paper, from a researcher named Marcus, who was considered a little
odd, about a theory that was very unpopular. It was widely known among magic
users how to project mana forwards or backwards in time. To magic, time was just
another direction in most ways. The only difference was that going forward in
time isn't guaranteed to always be your future. You might get another possible
future. This isn't something that happens when youtry and send mana left or
right or up or down.

The other restriction was that going back in time always followed your timeline.
You couldn't find other possible pasts, only the real one. Marcus's research
claimed there was a way to get around this limit. He developed a way to project
not only mana into the past, but to create a two way link that mana could flow
over. In his early research he relied on past versions of himself to test the
two way pipe. This past pipe theory was accepted as likely true by those that
knew about it, but it was seen more as a toy than anything useful.

The problem was that the past version of you had to be ready on the other end to
catch and ground the pipe. That other magic user could simply send data forward
in time the usual way: via written notes, or any other traditional form of
communication. Sending information back in time was also a solved problem.
Because of the uncertainty related with going forwards in time the information
your recieved from the future was almost never completely accurate. Sending data
about what was going to happen in the past would create an alternate fork of the
past, and then yesterday's tomorrow would be different.

Marcus's controversial next steps were something he called avatar projection.
Instead of relying on another magic user being on the other end of the pipe to
ground it, he would use magic to create a pseudo-magic user on the other end. A
being of pure mana. This was widely considered by Marcus's peers to be
impossible. Marcus disagreed with them.

It was also widely assumed to be impossible to get anything useful back from the
past. Since manipulating the past would create another forking timeline, and
communication between parallel timelines was impossible, there was no way to get
a signal back from the past. For these reasons, time travelling magic was
largely considered a dead end, useful only to theoretical magicians.

Marcus solved this problem by projecting the mana tunnel first, which linked the
moments in time. Then he projected the avatar into the past. It's initial
instructions would be to ground the pipe and wait for further instructions. The
timeline would fork, but---Marcus asserted---the pipe would not be broken. The
avatar would then ground the pipe, and the timelines would be linked, allowing
for two way communication across time.

These last two points were the controversial ones. The idea of creating mana
avatars was considered impossible by some, and incredibly dangerous by others.
It could go hay wire and spend the massive amount of mana imbued on it to
perform terrible magic. It was theorized the avatars could be made safe, but no
one was sure just how that could be done since no one had made one before.
Additionally, the amount of mana required to create a functional avatar was
huge, putting the caster at increased danger.

It was also considered that the two way pipe couldn't possibly survive a
timelien fork, and that communication would be severed just as any other cross
timeline information was.

Marcus proved them all wrong, and this is why the Council sought him out. As
people were exposed to magic, their own magical powers grew weaker. There was
only so much magic one could handle in life until one's mana was simply gone.
Additionally, it was theorized that some fork of the time line would be a world
where magic had always been broken. At some point the past, the magic timelines
forked off from the non-magic timelines. It was this common ancestor that
Council sought. It would require an exceptionally powerful magician to find out
what happened at that fork though. They decided to reach out to the nearest
parallel timeline that was part of the non-magical branch of time. They would
recruit two people from this mundane world, and use their untapped mana as the
tool to fix Syrenia.

As it turns out, the closest time line was home to a familar world. The Syrenia
that could have been, identicalal in all ways except magic, was Earth.
