# Chapter 1: Coffee Shop

Veronica wasn't very happy with her life. Things were going alright, kind of,
but she wanted more. She had graduated from college a few years ago, and had
majored in nothing in particular. In turns out the job market doesn't have a lot
of jobs in that field, so she worked part time at a coffee shop. It paid the
bills. Most of them anyways. She had some money saved up from interships, but it
wasn't going to last forever.

She didn't have a boyfriend, though there was a guy who would be offended if she
said that. They had dated in college, and neither of them moved out of the city.
They were still together out of habit. There wasn't a reason to break up, but
there wasn't a reason to keep going. So thinks stayed the way they were. In many
regards, that was her life now. It just *was*, with very little change. She
wanted something new.

Her job at the coffee shop wasn't very fulfilling, but it was a small shop, so
they weren't very busy very often, and often it was just her. On one of these
days, she was helping a customer who came in often enough that she almost knew
his name, but not often enough that she remembered his complicated order. While
she was trying to explain to the espresso machine what this man's order, someone
strange came through the door.

The newcomer was wearing a long trench coat with a hood, which wasn't too
unusual considering the downpour outside. They moved unnaturally, as if they had
to think about which muscles to move to take a step, but had been practicing it
in the mirror for a while. When they took off his hood his face didn't seem
quite right either. Veronica could quite place what was wrong with it, but while
she was pondering it, she scalded her hand with the steam wand. She stopped
staring wondering about what this new person's problem was, and finished making
the complex drink the almost-regular had asked for.

The newcomer didn't seem to understand the order line. When the first customer
left, the newcomer just stood there, waiting.

"Hello, can I help you?" Veronica asked. Now that she wasn't multi tasking, she
could see some of the strangeness in the face of the stranger. For one, they had
orange eyes, and their irises seemed a little too big for the eyes. They moved
with exact precision, being exactly still otherwise.

The voice that answered was also oddly precise. "Yes", it said in a clipped
androgynous voice. It didn't sound like any other person she had heard before.

After a few beats, Veronica realized the stranger wasn't going to say anything
else. "Would you like some coffee?"

"No." That same exact voice responded. The stranger's face was blank. They stood
there, patiently waiting for her to do something. There wasn't a glimmer of
mischiviousness or malice in their expression.

"Well then what do you want? Tea, hot chocolate?" By this point Veronica was a
bit creeped out by the stranger. She had weird customers from time to time, and
so was prepared for things like this. She started up a voice recorder on her
phone below the counter.

"I want your help. I want you to come with me and help us."

"Well, I can't exactly leave work right now. What is it you need help with?"

"Magic is dying. You can fix it. I want you to help us fix it."

"Well, like I said, I can't leave right now, I have to stay here. If you don't
want to buy something, I think you should leave."

The stranger seemed confused. "Should I?" They blinked several times. "I want
you to help us. You can fix magic. Leaving must help magic. I will leave." It
walked out the door as stiffly as it came in.

"Well that was fucking weird." Veronica said before shutting off the recorder.
Weird, but the stranger didn't try and hurt her or anything, so she counted
herself lucky and deleted the recording.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The rest of the day passed uneventfully. She took orders, she made coffee.
Cleaned the machines, chased a stray dog out of the shop. All in all it was a
fairly normal day.

Just as she was about to lock up and leave, the stranger from earlier that day
came into the shop again. In the same voice that didn't seem quite normal, they
said "You are no longer working. Now you can save Syrenia. Magic is dying, you
must help."

"What do you mean, 'magic is dying'? There is no such thing as magic."

"There is no magic here. This is true. Syrenia is not here. Syrenia has magic."

"And why do you think I can help this 'Syrenia'?" Veronic bent her fingers in
air quotes. She was almost ready to kick this weird person out of the shop, so
she could go home.

"I do not know. The Council said you could help. Will you help?"

"You just show up and start bugging me at work. I don't even know who you are!
That's not a very good way to get someone to do what you want."

"I am Katta. I was sent by the Council to retrieve you to fix magic."
