# Chapter A: Training

The next morning Veronica woke up, and for a moment thought it was all just a
bad dream. Now she was going to get up, get ready for work, and spend another
shift making strange coffee for strange people. Then she opened her eyes, and
saw the bright orange lizard perched next to her bed, and realized that this was
her life now.

"Katta, how long have you been there?" she asked the shape shifting avatar.

"I have been in this location for 7 hours, 39 minutes, and 12 seconds Veronica."
The avatars voice was the same precise staccato it always was. It wasn't
affected by the tiny body that was now projecting it. It didn't seem to matter
if this avatar thing was 6 feet or 6 inches tall. It creeped Veronica out.

Veronica glared at Katta. "So all night then. You watched me sleep all night?
Don't you have anything better to do?"

"My instructions are to assist in your training. I understand that you cannot
train while you are in slumber. I wished to be ready as soon as you awoke."

"Well, it's a bit rude. I'm not comfortable with you here. Scram, while I get
ready." Veronica realized that an order like that would probably result in Katta
spying on her to know when to come back. "On second though, go wait Marcus
until I get there."

"I will do that. I look forward to helping with your training." With a small
*pop*, Katta was gone.

Veronica took a moment to enjoy the bed the Syrenians had provided her. Their
taste in housing was a little strange, but they certainly knew how to make a
comfortable bed. It literally reformed itself as she turned, and her in
everyway. As an experiment, she stuck her arm out in the air in front of her,
and waited.

The bed slowly crept up to provide support to her arm, it's cool surface
cradling her elbow and wrist. She marvelled at it's intricacy. Yesterday they
had said that she and Chris had more potential magical energy than any one in
Syrenia. If they could do this with what they had, the possibilities of her
power were dazzling.

But first she need to learn how to use magic. She relunctantly got out of bed,
which returned to a flat featureless plane, and walked towards the other side of
the room. There was a small couter with a depression that looked like a sink.
There was a drain at the bottom, and a spout that was probably a faucet, but she
didn't see any handles or controls. It must be operated by magic, she decided.

There wasn't anything that resembled a shower or a tub, or really any of the
other things she would expect to find in a bathroom to get ready for the day. Or
a toilet. She made a mental note to ask Marcus about that. She couldn't hold it
in forever.

She fiddled with the sink a little more, sticking her hands in side it, rubbing
it, saying commands at it. Nothing seemed to work. She went to where she had
kicked off her clothes the night before, and pulled on her shirt and pants. She
left her jacket on the floor. She didn't see any better place to put it, and she
didn't trust the bed with it, as comfy as it may be. It wouldn't be needed
anyways. Syrenia seemed very warm, even at night. She wasn't sure if the climate
was different, or just magically enhanced.

Looking at herself in the reflection on the glass, she tried to fix her hair.
Without a proper shower, it was wispy and tangled. She tried to smooth it out
with her fingers, but it didn't help much. The rest of her was muddy and
scratched. A bad hair day just completed the look. She sighed, and left the
small hotel like room the council had provided her.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Katta had taken the form of a pale orange parrot, and flown to the training
ground. There ze flew around in the cavernous room which was quiet in these
early hours. Ze pondered this idea she had found in Veronica's head, and that
Anna had found in Chris's head. Both of them had this strange concept of gender
that seemed very complicated to Katta and Anna. It seemed to affect their
thoughts quite a bit, even what they said. Anna had told ze that Chris was very
offended when Anna called him "her". This confused Katta.

Ze had probed Veronicas memories a bit, to try and find a word appropriate for
the avatars. The creator had called them "it", ze thought. That didn't seem
right in Veronica's memories though. Katta had discussed it with Anna, and they
decided the word ze found in Veronica's head that best fit was "ze". It didn't
seem to have all the strangeness of body tied up in it that "she" and "he" did.

Katta dived down from the ceiling, feeling the wind rush through her featers.
She swooped through a hallway, to the door to the lab, where she knew she would
find the creator. Banking throught the doors she brought her self up and slowed
to a stop above the table he was working at. As ze landed, she turned into zir
favorite shape, and scampered over to where the creator was working.

The creator scratched the top of Katta's head, and murmered a greeting, barely
turning away from his calculations. After a moment, he turned and asked ze,
"Where are those Earthians? The world's not going to save itself."

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Veronica left her room and headed for the elevator. Chris also came out at the
same time going the same direction. She was glad to see that he also looked
disheveled. This magical world was getting the best of both of them, and they'd
only been there two days.

"I see you couldn't figure out the shower either?" Chris asked.

"I couldn't even find a shower. I foud a sink I couldn't turn on, and a window
to see how messy I look."

"The beds are nice though."

Veronica mumbled her agreement. As they stepped into the elevator, they looked
around for controls. There we none, of course. The doors closed, and they stood
their dumbly. Anna, who Veronica just noticed was sitting on Chris's shoulder as
a small green lizard, spoke up.

"You must tell it where you want to go," ze said. Zir voice was different than
Katta's. Whereas Katta's was machine like and staccato, Anna had a many-pitched,
rich voice, and zir words streamed together as she spoke.

Veronica and Chris looked at eachother dumbly again. "Take us to Marcus?" she
told the elevator questioningly. It chimed softly, and they started moving.

"I wonder if that would have worked with the shower?" Chris wondered a loud.

"I tried it with the sink. I think it might have laughed at me."

"It's weird how different things are here. It's like they solved all the same
problems, but were given K'Nex instead of Legos. It's all so foreign. I wonder
if our world would have turned out the same if Earth had magic?"

While Veronica was pondering that, the elevator stopped. The door openned on to
a huge room that looked big enough to put a house inside of. Chris walked out
confidently. He didn't seem to be affected by the mind boggling nature of
Syrenia as much as Veronica was.

Veronica felt silly that she was getting caught up in all the wonder of this
place. She shook her head and tried to catch up with Chris. As she entered the
room, the elevator silently closed behind her. Half the things aroud here seemed
almost sentient. It creeped her out a bit.

Up ahead, she saw Anna leap from Chris's shoulder, and transform into a long
tailed green bird. It's plummage streamed behind it like a flag in a herald's
hands. Chris ran after zir. Projecting their path ahead of them, Veronica saw
they were headed towards a hallway cut into the smooth wall. Everything in the
building they were in seemed to be carved from a single piece, without seams or
interruption, except where they was added for asthetics. The walls themselves
glowed uniformly, and doors seemed to open as needed. Veronica wasn't sure to
call it sufficiently advanced technology, or just magic. In this place, she
wasn't sure one could even make a distiction.

When she caught up to Chris, he was standing in what she could only call a lab.
It lacked the usual machines and instruments one might find in a normal lab, but
the test benches and white boards full of equations and experiments half in
progress were unmistakable.

"--self awareness is very important to successful magic use. An untrained mind
may be able to perform basic tasks, but to do anything really interesting,
absolute focus is fundamental." Marcus seemed to have dived straight into
explaining magic to Chris, who looked entirely lost.

Katta as a lizard was lying on a lab bench, curled up into a loop. While Marcus
finished his rant about clarity, Veronica idly stroked zir her scales. Ze
unfurled and stretched out.

"Is it time to start training?" Katta asked.

"I think so. Marcus seems excited about it."

Katta shifted into a opalescent beetle, and flew up on to Veronica's arm. Just
then, Marcus seemed to notice that she was in the room. "Oh good! You're both
here, now we can begin. Please come with me to the trianing room." Without a
second glance, he walked out of the room, back towards the cavernous room they
had come from.

"A bit absent minded, isn't he?"

"Yeah..."

Chris and Veronica followed Marcus into the training room. He had walked into
the center of the room.

"You two don't know anything about magic yet. Even the most novice magic user in
Syrenia has been exposed to magic their entirely life, and so knows more than
you do. I know this sounds very grimm, but you have an advantage even the most
talented magic user doesn't have.

"You see, magic degrades your mana. Every spell you cast, and every spell that
affects you reduced the amount of mana you have available, and reduced the power
of your mana. You are untouched by the magic that permeates our society. This
facilty is shielded and specially constructed to protect your power, and I will
avoid casting spells that directly affect you to the best of my abilities.

"Magic is all about energy. Your first task will be exchanging mana and kinetic
energy. You will be moving these training orbs." Marcus gestured with his hands,
and three balls formed out of the air in front of them.

"This facility has semi-autonomous spells that can do things for me, so I'm
spending mana all the time. I've instructed them to hold these balls against
gravity, so you won't have any thing to fight against except your ignorance.

"Magic is inherinently a mental process. Most casters find it useful to use
somatic components however, and that is what I will be teaching you. They are
only a tool to focus your attention though, and some casters can perform magic
by thought alone. Repeat this gesture." He held his hand out, pinched his finger
and thumb together, and then flipped it to push a flat hand upwards.

Chris and Veronica tried it. They got it wrong. Marcus gently guided their hands
into he right shapes, beind their fingers and adjusting their arms. The motions
he guided them through involved every muscle from their shoulder down. As he
worked he explained his adjustments.

"The flatness of your hand represents the evenness of the force. It is important
if you don't want to hurt your target.

"The pinch selects your target. It's sharpness conveys a specific target, and
not a broad selection.

"It's important to hold your elbow away from your body. The ball is not a part
of you, it is separate from you."

The requirements he put on them were demanding and seemingly arbitrary. After he
was satisfied with their motions, it seemed like they had been at it for hours.
Veronica's arm ached, and when Marcus declared their motions "good enough", her
arm flopped gratefully to her side.

"If the magic is all in our heads, why dod is it matter how we move?" Veronica
felt silly waving her hands around in the air.

"It's important have something to focus your mind on. You could make up your own
system, but that would not be remotely as precise as the common gesture system.
Additionally it encourages communication with other casters.

"So it's like spelling? We could spell words anyway we want, but if we all agree
on the same thing, it's better?" Chris asked.

"Well, it's not exactly liek that, but sure." Marcus didn't seem to like Chris's
simile. "Now, I want you two to tell me in words, exactly the motions I showed
you. Take a moment to think about. Try and be as precise in your words as the
motions I showed you."
