> This is going to be based on [The Hero's Journey][0]. Not original, but structured.

[0]: http://www.thewritersjourney.com/hero%27s_journey.htm

Hero: Veronica.

# PRELUDE

Narrator details

* The importance of Magic to Syrenia.
* That magic is dying.
* Mana.
* The Avatars
* Gathering the people from earth.

# THE ORDINARY WORLD

Veronica has a job. Veronica is at her job. Job kind of sucks, but it pays the
bills. More importantly, the bills must be paid.

# THE CALL TO ADVENTURE

The Avatar shows up at Veronica's job. It explains the situation, and that she
must come with it. It is quite insistent, but can't force her against her will.
Eventually, after much nagging, she is convinced. In a blink, they are
transported to Syrenia.

# REFUSAL OF THE CALL

This is unexpected. Veronica was not told what was going to happen to her, and
so is angry about being taking to Syrenia. She sees it as against her will, but
the Avatar doesn't understand. She storms off.

# MEETING WITH THE MENTOR

As Veronica makes her way through the forest, the Avatar has reported her anger
to the council. A member of the council goes out to retrieve her, and convince
her to help them.

She agrees, and they return to the city, where she is made comfortable, and
begins her training. She meets Chris, and together they are taught magic, its
uses, its limits, and how to control it.

Chris and Veronica do not get a long.

# CROSSING THE THRESHOLD

Their training is not complete, but matters have grown dire and they must
embark now. Their training incomplete, Chris, Veronica, and their Avatar's set
out to the Fork, to find out why Earth's magic was lost, while Syrenia's, in
hopes of learning why Syrenia's is dying.

# TESTS, ALLIES, AND ENEMIES

The past is not a friendly place, as they learn, and they are not the only magic
users to visit the Fork. They find that the reason why magic stopped working in
Earth was because a magic user stopped it.

# APPROACH

They study the process, and realize that the process did not fail in Syrenia. It
simply took much much longer to take affect. Earth's magic was stripped in
seconds, but Syrenia's took millenia to be removed. The only way to find out the
details of what was done is to witness it first hand. The antagonist clearly
will not allow that, so they have a fight on their hands.

# THE ORDEAL

# THE REWARD

# THE ROAD BACK

# THE RESURRECTION

# RETURN WITH THE ELIXIR
