Magic is dying.

Magic is already dead here, but it's not dead yet in Syrenia. Until recently it
was thriving. It was a part of everday life, and almost everyone to some degree
had magical powers.

It's started to fade though, and no one is quite sure why. It is known that
exposure to magic makes people less apt to having magical powers. Most people
build up a tolerance, so to speak. Magic also takes training and practice to use
well. All users of magic have to choose carefully when to use magic, because any
time they do, they reduce their ability to use magic. In short, they have a
finite amount of magic they can use throughout life. This is called mana.

With this knowledge, a group of magic users have set about finding someone who
has been exposed to magic as little as possible. They learned about a branch in
time, long ago. It was the most recent common ancestor between worlds that have
magic, and those that do not. The nearest world to Syrenia that split at that
moment in time is ours. Earth. And so they brought two people from Earth to
Syrenia to help fix the problem.

Magic is not dying because it is being over used. That theory was explored long
ago. It's not that the world is running out of mana. People are born with the
same amount of mana as they always have. It just isn't as effective as it once
was.

Syrenia is a world built on magic. It is not only used by humanity, but is a
fundamental part of the entire ecosystem. With out it, the world would collapse.
It is vital that it be restord to Syrenia before it is too late.
